---
layout: essay
published: true
type: essay
title: Crawl Before Walking
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-05-18
labels:
  - Reflection
  - Internship
  - Dart
  - Flutter
---

  Prior to my first day, I was tasked with being familiar with Dart and Flutter. I have never heard of these technologies before and do not even think that the UH Manoa ICS curriculum even offers it. Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google in 2017 which utilizes the Dart language. I was initially scared to learn something new, especially if the amount of resources to learn it are limited. But I guess that is what makes internships challenging and fun.
<br>

  Immediately after my finals were done for the spring semester, I was tediously working away trying to accumulate as much knowledge as possible. In my pursuit of being a “flutter god”, I realized that the number of hours I put in, did not equal the amount of information I have gained. The main issue I had was how I am supposed to take notes. I first wrote out my notes by hand and realized that my handwriting is atrocious. What is the point of writing something out if you can’t read it? The next thing I did was typing my notes out. But I realized I was copying what I was studying verbatim. So I tested my knowledge by creating simple applications. Having something I type in, physically appear on my screen, demonstrated, and cemented my knowledge.
<br>

  I had no idea what to expect on my first day; I was nervous. I assumed the task I would be given would be massive and I would be thrown into work. My first day consisted of being familiar with Github. Github is the world’s largest code sharing service in the world. The reason why it was important to learn this application is because the code that I write can be reviewed and seamlessly merged into the main developer branch of this project.
 <br>
 
  My first real coding task for this week seemed very simple. It was “adding x Icon” to the application. Easy I thought, but ended up being difficult. When I read this task, I misread what it meant. I am not sure why, but assumed I was being asked to put a custom font icon into the application. This lead me down a rabbit hole of trying to download external packages. After a couple hours I reread what the objective was and realized that ‘icon’ meant the actual application icon you would see on your mobile device. This realization led me to solve the task in less than 10 minutes.
<br>

  The next task I had was importing an SVG or scalable vector graphic into the mobile application. Natively there are issues with Flutter supporting this.  Luckily, Flutter has packages that are made by other developers to help people quickly build an app without having to build everything from scratch. The package I was using ended up wasting me hours due to errors. I kept rereading the documentation from this developer and even watched Youtube videos but I had a black image appearing instead of my SVG. It took me a while and I found the developer’s Github repo for this package. Within the ‘issues’ section of the repo, there seems to be other developers who are experiencing the same problem. The developer who created to this package simply responded that “I don’t plan to do this.. All of that said, I’d entertain a patch for it if someone else wants to work on it.” This was followed by 5 ‘thumbs down’.  The solution to this issue ended up being the SVG’s property being manipulated in Adobe Illustrator. It was interesting to see a developer respond to an issue and state there would be no fixes within the package for it.
<br>

  This week started slower than I thought due to mishaps. But I guess that's why computer scientists are called problem solvers.
  
[Click here for my next reflection!](https://samuelcy.github.io/essays/Significance-of-peer-review.html)







