---
layout: essay
published: true
type: essay
title: To_Give_Or_To_Teach
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-10
labels:
  - Question
---

As a software engineer, we should never think that we are alone when solving a problem. The internet is an infinite resource of information, generated by millions of people. We have the fortunate ability to ask and receive help from anywhere in the world. However, according to [Eric Raymond](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html), he states that the quality of the question that we ask, determines the quality of the answer we receive.
<br>

Sometimes, it is easy to get people’s time and assistance for granted. Eric states that the people who answer these questions are doing it out of their own good will. These people may be proficient in knowledge for their field, and enjoy solving thought provoking questions. A sort of challenge against what they know. Pessimistic answers may come from annoyance if the question isn’t worded properly. The answerer doesn’t want to waste time asking for additional information from the user such as “Did you do ___ or can you show your code?”.  
<br>

So how should a person ask for help? The person asking a question should ensure that he or she has conveyed that some type of work has been done. No one should say “PLEAsE HALP ME! NO wORK!”. Background information should be laid out of the answerer to understand the issue thoroughly. A bad example of someone asking for help is his or her computer screen not working. Instead, a good question from this user is stating the exact detail of what's happening. “On 12/12/12 my computer screen stopped working. My computer was working the day prior. My computer specs are x, y, and z. There was no indication of blackouts within the house. After changing out the monitor with a new one, the display still has no signal.” With additional information, someone should be able to ask if there has been any POST beep messages. Then, someone may determine if a computer part is broken or not.
<br>

Here is an [example](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49757953/how-to-load-json-assets-into-flutter-app) of what a good question may look like. The user is asking how to load a JSON asset  into his or her application. The user then shows exactly where that file is within the application. A piece of code is provided to show where the user is receiving the error. With this information, the user received a ton of help from the public. And even an explanation of why the user’s answer was wrong and why the solution given works thoroughly. On the same topic for this question, another user asked a question in not a smart way. This [user](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63837965/how-can-i-read-json-assets-file-on-flutter) asks “How Can i read JSON assets file on flutter”. Fortunately for this user he has provided the code he has been using. Which is the JSON code instead of the implementation of it. This JSON does not provide much information. Contrary, the smart question user at least showed where his or her file was located within the application. The only description that this user has provided is “json list view assets file help me”. Not having a proper sentence, dismays anyone from answering. And since there is no additional information, a user is most likely going to ask how the ListView code was being implemented.
<br>

How we ask questions, go beyond software engineering and into life. How can we help others if we can’t help ourselves? By being proactive in helping others, we may hope to inspire them to help others. By asking a user what their approach was, they may evaluate how they find information. “Give a person a fish, they eat for a day. Teach a person to fish, they eat for a lifetime”.
